>> Ben Hong: So when you're creating your
composables, you need to make sure that
their arguments are flexible, but
they have a standardized return.
What do I mean by that?
We had a chat earlier
about how Filter Task,
really, when you're looking at this,
it doesn't look particularly like.
In fact, we don't see anything
imported by Vue at all here.
The problem is, when I mentioned
flexible arguments, is that, remember,
when we're calling these in our
components filter tasks, let's see,
where is Filter Task being called?
Let's bring up an example.
In this particular case,
it's actually passing like a task object.
But what if newTaskStore
was a ref of tasks?
In this particular case, you're actually
gonna get an error because what
you told JavaScript is that I'm
passing you an array of tasks.
But at this point,
it's technically not an array of tasks,
it's a ref that contains
an array of tasks.
And then, uh-oh, I guess I'm seeing some.
I'm gonna let you sit with that for
a second.
>> Speaker 2: Would that be corrected
if you passed in the value of the ref?
>> Ben Hong: Correct.
If we did it like this, now it's solved.
But this is why the recommendation
here is to be flexible about it.
It's because you can't really guarantee
how your developers want to use it, and
it will always feel a little clunky.
And so Vue thought about this.
You know, we see that people are going
through this, so how might we solve this?
Well, it's actually kind of clever.
So we have here,
we said that it's a type of task, but
we also know it might be a ref.
So in Vue,
we have this type called mayberef.
And so you say, maybe,
maybe if it's a ref, maybe it's not, or
maybe it's a plain value, one of the two.
We don't know if it's reactive,
but either way,
we're going to find a way to deal with it.
And I'll explain that in a second.
Okay, so now you're wondering, right,
like, okay, so what does this mean, right?
It could be reactive, meaning it's a ref,
meaning it has to be unpackaged.
Or it's a plain value, and
then dot value would not work
cuz it's already a plain value.
And so this is where the standardizing
what you're returning is important,
because then you, as the composable
author, need to decide in the rest of this
composable, do I want this
parameter to be a flat value?
Or do I need it to be reactive?
If you need it to be a plain value,
there is a helper method
from Vue called toValue.
So basically we would say, for example,
I'll just say tasks just to
make it easy in this case.
ToValue on taskList, so
always forces an unwrapped value.
What's nice about this is the toValue
helper function, if it's not a ref,
it'll just spit back the value.
If it is a ref, it will unpack it and
then make it plain.
Your alternative,
as some of you might have guessed,
is to simply wrap it in a reference.
And if you wrap a ref in a ref,
it just flattens to a ref.
It's not like you're doing
additional performance overhead.
This is where consistency, in other words,
you don't enforce consistency at
the parameter level, where again,
especially with call signatures,
you just don't know what developer
is going to try to call it.
So you say, cool, as long as you give me
an array of tasks, whatever its method,
I will then deal with it, I will
standardize it, and I will follow through.
And so to finish with that particular line
of thought, this also means that whatever
you're doing, you should then probably be
consistent about whether you're usually
returning a reactive value or
you're returning a plain value,
because that is another choice then
you have to make as the author,
because is this something that.
And so one would probably make
the case that if it's a composable,
generally you want a reactive value
because it's probably dealing with state,
and so you want someone to be able to
subscribe to it, watch to it, et cetera.
Whereas if you were doing more like
a utility function, maybe logic,
then a plain value is
probably the route to go.
But again, to be very clear, that is up to
your digression as an author of whatever
composable utility function
you should choose to do.
But the key here is flexible arguments,
standardized execution within it so
that they go two hand in hand.
So I do have to wrap this up
with one additional caveat,
and I promise it's just
the one more thing.
So I mentioned that you have regular
tasks, you have the irregular value,
which in this case is task array,
and you have your ref value.
But there's also you can also
technically get values from a function.
And so in this particular case, you can
imagine it, I think, the signature.
>> Ben Hong: ReturnTaskStore is a function
that returns a task, an array of tasks.
And so
if you Put return tasks store in here.
This is also going to error out because
it is not a plain value, it is not a ref.
In fact, it is a function.
So we also call it a getter
because it's getting the value.
So the reason I want to say this all in
one breath, because I don't want people to
get too far ahead of me here or
just run away and start doing stuff.
Maybe ref is fine, but
in reality what you want is maybe ref or
getter, and that completes
the evolution of your maybe ref,
maybe getter, maybe plain value.
And with this type, you have
essentially a perfectly typed flexible
parameter that can be
used in whatever context.
However, someone wants to call something
you know, because they decide to put
a function inside of your method,
call whatever you're covered, and
as long as you do your part
in the next two pieces,
you know whether it's flatten it or
make it reactive, you're good.
You're Gucci.
>> Speaker 2: Wouldn't
you have to call it if.
It was a getter?
>> Ben Hong: No.
So that's the funny thing.
ToValue and
ref will just do their thing, yeah.
So that's the beauty of
standardizing it at the very top.
You're like,
I'm working with reactive values.
Boom, this is what I'm doing,
or, nope, just plain value.
>> Ben Hong: I was talking to the team.
I really wish we could have called it
MaybeReactive cuz I feel like that
would've been good enough.
But unfortunately reactive
is already a term in view,
so it would technically be misleading.
But I feel like that's really what
we're saying, is it's maybe reactive,
but unfortunately that ship has sailed,
so this is what we get.
Anyhow, yeah,
any questions about this pattern
of flexible parameters but
standardized outputs?
>> Speaker 3: I mean, maybe it's just me,
but flexible parameters,
it sounds a bit like a drug looking for
a disease state.
Somebody wrote this really cool method
called maybe refergetter and said,
how should we use this?
>> Ben Hong: I think part of it is that we
encountered people being inconsistent with
how they were calling
this function signature.
And because a lot of times you're
using these in components,
people were passing reactive values.
But then they weren't handling
it correctly inside of then
the method, right?
Cuz some of us, for example,
I tend to default to reactive values.
But then if I happen to take a signature
where they're expecting plain,
then it just kinda botches
the whole thing up.
So rather than having these
sort of if else statements,
they came up with these helper functions.
But again, I think if your team
doesn't have that problem, cool.
If you're like, every composable is a ref,
don't pass it anything but plain and
you all can stick to that, I mean, great.
>> Speaker 2: That's what
TypeScript is for, right?
To help us.
>> Ben Hong: That's fair.
Yeah.
So I guess you could say you
could make the case that
this is really maybe more for library
authors than I've just been on some co.
Like some teams where like, you know, your
developers halfway across the world and
they're doing tickets, you know, and so
like if the communication is not always
there and
the standards aren't as easily enforced,
then things like this can
help to reduce friction.
But exactly to your point, if your team
is already using TypeScript in a way and
it's consistent,
don't even worry about this.
It's just nice to know that this is an
option for you, I guess is what I want to.
It's so much honesty of my team teaching
philosophy is to just give you tools and
different scenarios where
it might be useful and
then you'll know best when
it's time to use it or not.
>> Speaker 2: What does Typescript tell us
on the other side of maybe ref forgetter?
>> Ben Hong: Yep.
So it's the basically for
those who don't know,
T is just a generic basically variable
letter, essentially any type.
So yep.
It essentially says it's maybe ref
of T computed ref t function of T or
just T itself.
So it's a very elaborate.
I think they call it union.
Right.
I think it's a union type.
>> Speaker 4: Should we also create
a parameter in the composable to allow
the user to choose the filter or
how to filter.
>> Ben Hong: Are they referring
to this one right here?
Cuz I think this is
what's this TaskFilter.
Are they saying that this should
also be a maybe refergator?
If they are, they are correct.
At least if I'm using my pattern
that I'm explaining right now,
is this what they're referring to?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
I think that's what they meant.
>> Ben Hong: Yeah, yes, so
to who said that in chat, you're spot-on.
Yeah, so even more about consistency,
don't MaybeRef or get a one and
then not MaybeRef or get at the other.
Like all flexible or
just be very consistent.
Actually either way
it's about consistency.
That's the number one thing.
Consistency is the name of the game.